# Instacartpython

Instacart_Python
This repor contains Instacart grocery analysis conducted using Python. This was part of a CareerFoundry analytics course.

Objective
Conduct an analysis for an existing company, Instacart, an online grocery store that operates through an app. Instacart already has very good sales, but they want to uncover more information about their sales patterns. My task is to perform an initial data and exploratory analysis of some of their data in order to derive insights and suggest strategies for better segmentation based on the provided criteria.

Key Questions
The sales team needs to know what the busiest days of the week and hours of the day are (i.e., the days and times with the most orders) in order to schedule ads at times when there are fewer orders.
● They also want to know whether there are particular times of the day when people spend the most money, as this might inform the type of products they advertise at these times.
● Instacart has a lot of products with different price tags. Marketing and sales want to use simpler price range groupings to help direct their efforts.
● Are there certain types of products that are more popular than others? The marketing and sales teams want to know which departments have the highest frequency of product orders.
● The marketing and sales teams are particularly interested in the different types of customers in their system and how their ordering behaviors differ.

Data
The Instacart Online Grocery Shopping Dataset 2017”, Accessed from https://www.instacart.com/datasets/grocery-shopping-2017 Customer data was randomly generated by CareerFoundry.
